<div id="header">

# HTTP

</div>

<div id="content">

<div class="sect1">

## Description

<div class="sectionbody">

<div class="paragraph">

The `HTTP` action retrieves a file from a Web server using the HTTP protocol.

</div>

<div class="paragraph">

This action could be used to access data on partner Web sites.

</div>

<div class="paragraph">

For example, the daily data export or daily list of customers is located at a specified Web site.

</div>

<div class="paragraph">

Also, SaaS providers may give you a URL to locate a report.

</div>

<div class="paragraph">

You can call that URL to retrieve an Excel file or zip file that contains the data.

</div>

<div class="paragraph">

Salesforce requires that you use SOAP APIs to retrieve data.

</div>

<div class="paragraph">

If HTTP traffic is too heavy in your corporate environment, you may choose to use a proxy server with HTTP authentication.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sect1">

## Options

<div class="sectionbody">

<div class="sect2">

### General Tab

Option

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Description

Action name

The name of the workflow action.

URL

The HTTP URL of the file to retrieve, or the directory name to store an uploaded file to.

Run for every result row?

Check this if you want to run this action for every row that was generated by a previous pipeline. Use the "Copy rows to result". If selected, an HTTP request will be made for each result. Otherwise, the file is only retrieved once

Input field which contains URL

If the "Run for every result row?" option is selected, the field specified here will determine the file URL for each row

Input field which contains upload file name

If the "Run for every result row?" option is selected, the field specified here will determine the local file that will be uploaded to the URL associated with the "Input field which contains URL" field.

Input field which contains destination file name

If the "Run for every result row?" option is selected, the field specified here will determine the local file where the result downloaded from the URL associated with the "Input field which contains URL" field.

Authentication

Username

If the site requires authentication, use this username to log in

Password

If a username is defined, this is the password for it

Proxy server for upload

The URL of a proxy server that you want to connect to the HTTP URL through

Proxy port

If a proxy server is defined, this is the port number it listens on

Ignore proxy for hosts

A regular expression list of exceptions for proxy redirection. This may be useful when working on an intranet or VPN

Upload file

Upload file

If you are uploading a file, this will be its name on the remote server

Webserver reply

Target file

If you are downloading a file, this its name on your local filesystem

Append to specified target file?

If selected, and if the target file already exists, Hop will append all new data to the end of the file

Add date and time to file name?

If selected, the date and time of the HTTP request (in yyyMMdd\_HHmmss format) will be added to the target filename

Target file extension

If the previous option is selected, this field specifies the extension (letters after the dot) of the target filename

Add filename to result filename

Any files that are copied will appear as a result from this action; shows a list of files that were copied in this action.

<div class="sect2">

### Headers Tab

| Option | Description                               |
| ------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| \#     | Order that the header should be processed |
| Name   | The name of this HTTP header              |
| Value  | The actual header value to pass           |

</div>

<div id="footer">

<div id="footer-text">

Last updated 2025-09-04 18:24:14 +0200

</div>

</div>
